GCE ingress improvements and documentation extension on github and profile (#1136)
jupyterhub/zero-to-jupyterhub-k8s: doc/source/advanced.md

controller, [**kubernetes/ingress-nginx**](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx).
Note that Nginx maintains two additional ingress controllers.
For most use cases, we recommend the community maintained **kubernetes/ingress-nginx** since that
is the ingress controller that the development team has the most experience using. See below for
**GCE Ingress** settings.

#### GCE Ingress and manual HTTPS
To set up HTTPS with GCE Ingress, you must:

> 1. offload the proxy, enable `https` (and ideally, change it from 

Reviewer: No need to enable https, it's handled at Ingress rather than `proxy`.

By setting `enabled: true, type: offload`, the `proxy` service

- opens port 443, but _ingress_ [never send request to it](https://github.com/jupyterhub/zero-to-jupyterhub-k8s/blob/eebc19c3c4a5e7d3da68b026c31ebd99d0f048b1/jupyterhub/templates/ingress.yaml#L23)
- is expected to terminate SSL, but GKE _service_ has no such feature

so it's useless.

ref: https://github.com/jupyterhub/zero-to-jupyterhub-k8s/blob/master/doc/source/security.md#off-loading-ssl-to-a-load-balancer

<details>
<summary>Click here to see how `proxy` service works for each https type</summary>

Legend: `[*]` is where SSL termination happens.

## enabled: false

```
  svc: proxy                                          pod: proxy
  ┌────────────┐                                      ┌────────────┐
─ 80 ──────────┼───────────────────────────────────── 8000         │
  │            │                                      │            │
  └────────────┘                                      └────────────┘
```

## enabled: true, type: manual/secret

```
  svc: proxy                                          pod: proxy
  ┌────────────┐                                      ┌────────────┐
─ 80 ──────────┼───────────────────────────────────── 8000         │
─ 443 ─────────┼───────────────────────────────────── 8443─[*]→ redirect
  └────────────┘                                      └────────────┘
```

## enabled: true, type: offload

```
  svc: proxy                                          pod: proxy
  ┌────────────┐                                      ┌────────────┐
─ 80 ───────┬──┼───────────────────────────────────── 8000         │
─ 443 ──[*]─┘  │                                      │            │
  └────────────┘                                      └────────────┘
```

## enabled: true, type: auto

```
  svc: proxy                                          pod: proxy
  ┌────────────┐                                      ┌────────────┐
─ 80 ──────────┼─┐                                  ┌ 8000         │
─ 443 ─────────┼┐│ pod: autohttps    svc: autohttps │ │            │
  └────────────┘││ ┌────────────┐    ┌────────────┐ │ └────────────┘
                │└ 80 ───────┬──┼─── 8000 ────────┼─┘
                └─ 443 ──[*]─┘  │    │            │
                   └────────────┘    └────────────┘
```

</details>

Reviewer 2: Are you saying that I should remove **enabled: true, type: offload** in the **proxy** section and set up https following the directions below? 
ref: [https://github.com/jupyterhub/zero-to-jupyterhub-k8s/blob/master/doc/source/security.md#off-loading-ssl-to-a-load-balancer](url)

Reviewer: If you want to use GCP's HTTPS load balancer,

> remove **enabled: true, type: offload** in the **proxy** section

Yes. (actually no problem to set that, but it's pointless)

> set up https following the directions below?

No, that direction is not for you. It's for who want to set up https using service of `type: LoadBalancer`, such as AWS ELB.

Note that k8s has 2 ways of representations of load balancers:

1. Ingress
    - e.g.: GCP's HTTP(S) LB
2. Service of `type: LoadBalancer`
    - e.g.: AWS's ELB/NLB, GCP's TCP LB

Reviewer 2: Is there any specific instructions or any documentation that I can follow in order to build load balancer for k8s? Thanks for the help!

Author: `build loadbalancer`? What do you mean by that? There is  a service of `type: LoadBalancer` or an `Ingress` resource, which can also be a loadbalancer (usually used for SSL purposes or to have single loadbalancer for many services).

Reviewer 2: I mean that I want to let my JupyterHub site to have a loadbalancer. What should I do? I read the section **off-loading SSL to a load balancer** from this website [https://zero-to-jupyterhub.readthedocs.io/en/latest/security.html?highlight=load%20balance](url), but I am still confused on how to set up loadbalancer in the Google cloud platform. Any help would be appreciated.

Author: It's not necessary. E.g. if you are in a trusted network (e.g. at home) you don't need SSL (at least I wouldn't bother).

The reason for it for me was that we had SSL handled by Ingress, therefore there is no reason why to let SSL on for anything beyond Ingress. That's why it's off-loading. The `proxy` is by default a proper k8s `Service` resource with type `LoadBalancer`, if that's what you want. Then there is a k8s Ingress resource, which as different type of a LoadBalancer. It's a bit confusing.

>  external `LoadBalancer` to close it from outside world - we have ingress for that)

Reviewer 3: You are suggesting a change from `LoadBalancer` to `NodePort`. Do we need `NodePort` over `ClusterIP`?

Yikes it becomes quite complicated to figure things out with so many parts in play.

Author: I believe it is: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/26508#issuecomment-222376962.

> 2. create TLS secrets same as for other Ingresses (e.g. [nginx](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/user-guide/tls/) )

Reviewer: IMO, it's better to note that you can use [Google manged certificates](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/managed-certs#setting_up_the_managed_certificate) or [pre-shared certs (not k8s resource)](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/ingress-multi-ssl#specifying_certificates_for_your_ingress) instead of k8s secrets.

3. reference the secret in the ingress spec and add `pathSuffix: *`

```yaml
proxy:
  https:
    enabled: true
    type: offload
  service:
    type: NodePort
ingress:
  enabled: true
  annotations:

>     # kubernetes.io/ingress.global-static-ip-name: YOUR-STATIC-IP-NAME

Reviewer 4: Is this static ip annotation required? If so, it might make sense to mention the steps required to get it

Author: I don't think it is required, you should get some automatically assigned, don't you? (I tested that only with my reserved address though).

Reviewer 3: To be clear, the `YOUR-STATIC-IP-NAME` refer to the name of a reserved ip address rather than the actual IP?

Btw, to reserve IPs on GCP, see: https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/ip-addresses/reserve-static-external-ip-address

Author: Exactly.

This could be omitted (hence the comment) but I guess that it is quite common usecase that people want to expose it.

Reviewer 3: Ah - let's find a place to link to this for more details:
https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/tutorials/http-balancer#step_5_optional_configuring_a_static_ip_address

    kubernetes.io/ingress.class: gce
    kubernetes.io/ingress.allow-http: "false"
  hosts:

>   - example.com  # change it to you domain

Reviewer: super nits: typo `you` → `your`

>   pathSuffix: "*"

Reviewer 3: I learned:

https://github.com/jupyterhub/zero-to-jupyterhub-k8s/blob/03127a9e351ed3ffca99969ef6f9a2b115b46516/jupyterhub/templates/ingress.yaml#L14-L24

So, this will influence the rule of what to match, by saying: match everything. Hmmm, this is the default behavior for ingress-nginx I believe. I mean, I arrive at the destination even though i request `https://myhubdomain.com/hub/home` for example. Is this another GCE Ingress Controller vs nginx-ingress-controller deviation?

Reviewer: Yes, they behaves differently. See my following pr: https://github.com/jupyterhub/zero-to-jupyterhub-k8s/pull/988

  tls:
  - hosts:
    - example.com
    secretName: jupyterhub-tls
```

> *Note*: Ingress must have a default backend, it can be equivalent to the default jupyterhub path.

Reviewer 3: The GCE Ingress Controller may require this, but I don't require this on my setup with the ingress-nginx-controller.

The key questions about this PR lies here I think.
1. In what way does the GCE ingress controller fail if we lack this default backend?
2. How did you learn about 1? Is there documentation about this?
3. Will adding a default backend influence the function of the ingress-nginx controller?

I'll investigate further, right now, about what I can learn about these things.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*NOTE:* Kubernetes ingress resources managed by the GCE Ingress Controller must have a default backend, it can be the same as the default jupyterhub path.
```

Reviewer 3: Regarding the default backend: https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-gce/blob/master/docs/faq/gce.md#why-do-i-need-a-default-backend

Reviewer 3: This may be useful:

```
gcloud compute http-health-checks list
```

Reviewer 3: https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-gce/blob/master/docs/faq/gce.md#can-i-configure-gce-health-checks-through-the-ingress

There is a broken link that should point to this deleted documentation, because it was supposedly covered someplace in GCP now, https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-gce/tree/e906f93959ede5a745ead5c7330a27e5f29a5e2c/examples/health-checks

Reviewer 4: If I read correctly, the ingress controller hardcoding of `/healthz` is for the ingress's *default* backend, which isn't relevant to the Hub's health check endpoint.

Reviewer 3: Hmmm but the default backend will not respond if you have an ingress rule, right?

Hmmm.... This warps my brain.
